the Book of Daniel in the third year of
the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to
Jerusalem and besieged it and the Lord
gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his
hand with some of the articles of the
house of God which he carried into the
land of Shinar to the house of his God
and he brought the articles into the
treasure house of his God then the king
instructed ashpenaz the master of his
eunuchs to bring some of the children of
Israel and some of the Kings descendants
and some of the nobles young men in whom
there was no blemish but good-looking
gifted in all wisdom possessing
knowledge and quick to understand who
had ability to serve in the king's
palace and whom they might teach the
language and literature of the Chaldeans
and the King appointed for them a daily
provision of the Kings delicacies and of
the wine which he drank and three years
of training for them so that at the end
of that time they might serve before the
king now from among those of the sons of
Judah were Daniel Hananiah Mishael and
Azariah to them the chief of the eunuchs
gave names
he gave Daniel the name Belteshazzar to
Hananiah Shadrach to Michelle misha
under Azariah Abednego
but Daniel purposed in his heart that he
would not defile for ssin of the Kings
delicacies nor with the wine which he
drank therefore he requested of the
chief of the eunuchs that he might not
defile himself now God had brought
Daniel into the favour and goodwill of
the chief of the eunuchs and the chief
of the eunuchs said to Daniel I fear my
lord the king who has appointed your
food and drink for why should he see
your faces looking worse than the young
men who are your age then you would
endanger my head before the king
so Daniel said to the steward whom the
chief of the eunuchs had set over Daniel
Hananiah Mishael and Azariah please test
your servants for 10 days and let them
give us vegetables to eat and water to
drink then let our appearance be
examined before you and the appearance
of the young men who eat the portion of
the Kings delicacies and as you see fit
so deal with your servants so he
consented with them in this matter and
tested them 10 days and at the end of 10
days their features appeared better and
fatter in flesh than all the young men
who ate the portion of the Kings
delicacies
thus the steward took away their portion
of delicacies and the wine that they
were to drink and gave them vegetables
as for these four young men God gave
them knowledge and skill in all
literature and wisdom and Daniel had
understanding in all visions and dreams
now at the end of the days when the King
had said that they should be brought in
the chief of the eunuchs brought them in
before Nebuchadnezzar
then the king interviewed them and among
them all none was found like Daniel
Hananiah Mishael and Azariah therefore
they served before the king and in all
matters of wisdom and understanding
about which the king examined them he
found them ten times better than all the
magicians and astrologers who were in
all his realm
thus Daniel continued until the first
year of Kings science